.\"
.\" $Id
.\"
.Dd February 20, 2004
.Dt COMO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm como
.Nd COntinuous MOnitoring program
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar config_file
.Op Fl D Ar basedir
.Op Fl L Ar libdir
.Op Fl m Ar mem-size
.Op Fl M Ar module
.Op Fl p Ar query-port
.Op Fl s Ar sniffer:device
.Op Fl v Ar logflags
.Op Fl x Ar debug_options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a software that implements capture, processing and storage
of packet traces for a Continuous Monitoring system.
It saves data to disk for off-line processing, and exports them
through a simplified http interface for further processing.
.Pp
The configuration parameters for a CoMo instance can be set from
the command line and/or one or more configuration files.
Command line options and configuration files are processed in the order they
are specified, and later definition override earlier ones.
If no configuration file is supplied from the
command line, then the program behaves as if
.Fl c Ar como.conf
had been specified as the first option.
.Pp
The following command line options are available.
Unless other specified, multiple instances override each other,
and only the last occurrence is retained.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar config-file
The configuration file to use.
If specified multiple times, all the files will be loaded in sequence.
.It Fl D Ar directory
The data directory.
.It Fl L Ar libdir
The directory containing library modules.
.It Fl m Ar mem-size
The memory size, in megabytes, used for the capture process.
.It Fl M Ar module
The parameters of the module to be loaded.
Multiple modules can be loaded with multiple
.Fl M
options, but names must be unique.
.It Fl p Ar query-port
The port where CoMo listens for HTTP requests, default 44444
.It Fl s Ar sniffer:device
The source of traffic. Can be any of the following devices types,
followed by a colon-separated argument specifying the relevant
parameter, e.g. a device name, or file, or URL:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bpf:device           # argument is the network device
libpcap:device       # device name
dag:/dev/dag0        # DAG card
erf:filename         # ERF file
pcap:filename        # arg. is the pcap file name
dump:URL             # remote CoMo via http
.Ed
.It Fl v Ar logflags
A comma-separated list of flags including
.Ar ca,qu,me,st,qd,su,warn,debug
each optionally prefixed by
.Ar v-
to indicate the verbose version of the message,
and also by a + or - to enable or disable the specific
class of messages.
.It Fl x Ar debug_options
Strings with debugging options, for the programmer only.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
The above parameters (and more) can also be set through a
configuration file, which has a free-form ascii format
with # indicating comments, and lines typically made of
a keyword and any additional parameters.
Configuration file and command line options are processed in the order
in which they are encountered, so either can override the other.
.Pd
For a complete and up-to-date description of the configuration
file options please refer to the file
.It Pa example.conf
in the distribution.
.Pp
A sample configuration file is shown below:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# This is a sample configuration file for como
#

memsize	63	# same as -m
query-port     44444   # same as -p
basedir  "data"   # same as -D
libdir   "modules"   # same as -L
sniffer "bpf"           "xl0"  # same as -s

filter		"myfilter.so" # to specify a precompiled filter

module "example"
  source      "example.so"  # module shared object 
  output      "example"     # output file
  description "Example of module configuration"
  filter      "proto(TCP)"  # packets of interest (default: ALL)
  filesize    1000000       # max output file size (default: 128MB)
  blocksize   1024          # max record size on file (default: 1024)
  hashsize    1             # hash table size (default: 1)
  memsize     1024          # private memory in bytes (default: 0)
end
.Ed
Again, you can have multiple 'module' sections, and
multiple instances of the other parameters.
.Pp
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tcpdump 1 ,
.Xr bpf 4
.Sh BUGS
To be filled...
